This document will be used to track changes we make to the game.

I've created the game file Game_Draft. The game has a very rough outline so ignore the weird look and placement of items. I added the logo, start, and game screens with title and button place holders. There should be a 3 second timer for the logo screen before it switches to the start screen. The game screen should have a prompt for the end of the game after clicking on a button. The information window should also pop up after pressing the start button.
Natasha 3/18/21

I've added the ability to shoot bubbles (currently apples) and align them to the grid. They are still relatively buggy and use example sprites, but it mostly works and should be a good basis for adding new bubbles.
Duncan 3/20/21

I added the compounds into the game information window. I also repositioned the buttons so that they're centered appropriately. The tutorial screen is set up just like the logo screen for now and only shows for 3 seconds before moving to the actual game. It will be adjusted at a later point. The end of game prompt now states "Uh oh! The bubbles reached the launcher!" and once the user closes it, the game moves to the next screen. This screen is titled game over and has 3 buttons: retry, home, and quit. Retry returns to the previous level and reloads it, home returns to the start screen, and quit ends the game. Natasha 3/25/21

The tutorial screen is more like an instruction screen. There are image placeholders for now since the game is not complete so I'll add them in when we make more progress. This screen tells players how to use the bubble launcher, how to destroy bubbles, and how to pass the levels. I also extended the timer so that players have enough time to read everything. Natasha 4/1/21

The launcher can now shoot positive and negative bubbles, and they will clear when colliding with bubbles of opposite charge. The size has also been increased to 48x48 and window size has been altered to make room for the new bubbles. The plan is to have all positive and negative ions of the same charge be the same kind of object (for instance, Na+ and H+ are considered the same object) and then when clearing ions with larger charges it will check the sprite_index to make sure it isn't making something like HNaO (which is technically a valid compound could make things complicated). Duncan 4/1/21

There is now background music and sounds when the buttons are pressed. We didn't add sound to the bubbles yet because we didn't want to mess up the logic. The settings screen has the option to turn the background music and sound effects on/off. When the game over prompt shows, it also plays a sound indicating the player has lost the level. Natasha, Janet 4/1/21

There are now four kinds of positive ions and four kinds of negative ions (still all with a charge of 1) and the layout of the level is randomized. For future levels, there will need to be a lot of copy-pasting the new ions into code, as there are functions to: get an odd sprite from an even sprite, get an odd object from a sprite, get an even object from a sprite, and get a free object from a sprite, so all of these will need to updated for new ions. Duncan 4/1/21

Ions with charges of +2 and -2 will appear and can be cleared. For example, a +2 charge can be cleared by either shooting a -2 charge, or shooting a -1 charge of the same kind as an adjacent ion. Note: for any ions to clear, they have to collide directly with the ion you want to clear; it won't check if it collides with the ion next to it and gets placed in the same spot. We'll probably change this in the future. Other changes: ion randomization is now weighted by the number of positive and negative charges in the room, so if there are 4 positive charges and 2 negative charges, there's a 1/3 chance of getting a positive and a 2/3 chance of getting a negative. Also, ions will now stick to the ceiling instead of bouncing off. Duncan/Landon 4/5/21

There is now a prompt when all the bubbles are cleared from the screen indicating that the user has passed the level. It also plays a sound before refreshing the screen and loading the next level. A level screen has been added and there are buttons for 5 levels. The bubble launcher and bubbles have sounds, and the background music has been changed. The tutorial screen now requires the user to press enter before moving on to the game screen. Natasha/Janet 4/7/21

The user will lose the game if the screen has more than 67 bubbles and be taken to the game over screen. We added a pause button with 3 options: resume, home, and restart. There are now bubbles for levels 3 and 4 but no logic for the charges of the new bubbles have been added. Natasha, Janet 4/8/21